# Question 1
> Using a little bit of algebra, prove that (4.2) is equivalent to (4.3). In other words, the logistic function representation and logit represen- tation for the logistic regression model are equivalent.

Given the equation:
$$
p(X) = \frac{e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}} 
$$

We want to find:

$$\frac{p(X)}{1 - p(X)}$$ 

First, let's transform the equation step-by-step:

$$
\frac{p(X)}{1 - p(X)} = \frac{\frac{e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}}{1 - \frac{e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}}
$$

Simplifying the denominator:
$$
= \frac{\frac{e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}}{\frac{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}} - \frac{e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}}
$$

Combining the fractions in the denominator:

$$
= \frac{\frac{e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}}{\frac{1}{1 + e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}}}
$$

Simplifying:

$$
= e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}
$$

Therefore, we have:

$$
\frac{p(X)}{1 - p(X)} = e^{\beta_0 + \beta_1 X}
$$

# Question 2
> It was stated in the text that classifying an observation to the class for which (4.17) is largest is equivalent to classifying an observation to the class for which (4.18) is largest. Prove that this is the case. In other words, under the assumption that the observations in the kth class are drawn from a N(μk,σ2) distribution, the Bayes classifier assigns an observation to the class for which the discriminant function is maximized.

Assuming that $f_k(x)$ is normal, the probability that an observation $x$ is in class $k$ is given by
$$
p_k(x) = \frac {\pi_k
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_k)^2)
               }
               {\sum {
                \pi_l
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               }}
$$
while the discriminant function is given by
$$
\delta_k(x) = x \frac {\mu_k} {\sigma^2} - \frac {\mu_k^2} {2 \sigma^2}
              + \log(\pi_k)
$$            

*Claim: Maximizing $p_k(x)$ is equivalent to maximizing $\delta_k(x)$.*

*Proof.* Let $x$ remain fixed and observe that we are maximizing over the parameter $k$. Suppose that $\delta_k(x) \geq \delta_i(x)$. We will show that $f_k(x) \geq f_i(x)$. From our assumption we have
$$
x \frac {\mu_k} {\sigma^2} - \frac {\mu_k^2} {2 \sigma^2} + \log(\pi_k)
\geq
x \frac {\mu_i} {\sigma^2} - \frac {\mu_i^2} {2 \sigma^2} + \log(\pi_i).
$$
Exponentiation is a monotonically increasing function, so the following inequality holds
$$
\pi_k \exp (x \frac {\mu_k} {\sigma^2} - \frac {\mu_k^2} {2 \sigma^2})
\geq
\pi_i \exp (x \frac {\mu_i} {\sigma^2} - \frac {\mu_i^2} {2 \sigma^2})
$$
Multipy this inequality by the positive constant
$$
c = \frac {
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} x^2)
               }
               {\sum {
                \pi_l
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               }}
$$
and we have that
$$

\frac {\pi_k
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_k)^2)
               }
               {\sum {
                \pi_l
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               }}
               
\geq

\frac {\pi_i
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_i)^2)
               }
               {\sum {
                \pi_l
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               }}
$$
or equivalently, $f_k(x) \geq f_i(x)$. Reversing these steps also holds, so we have that maximizing $\delta_k$ is equivalent to maximizing $p_k$.

# Question 3
> This problem relates to the QDA model, in which the observations within each class are drawn from a normal distribution with a class- specific mean vector and a class specific covariance matrix. We con- sider the simple case where p = 1; i.e. there is only one feature.
Suppose that we have K classes, and that if an observation belongs to the kth class then X comes from a one-dimensional normal dis- tribution, X ∼ N(μk,σk2). Recall that the density function for the one-dimensional normal distribution is given in (4.16). Prove that in this case, the Bayes classifier is not linear. Argue that it is in fact quadratic.
Hint: For this problem, you should follow the arguments laid out in Section 4.4.1, but without making the assumption that σ12 = · · · = σK2 .

$$
p_k(x) = \frac {\pi_k
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma_k}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma_k^2} (x - \mu_k)^2)
               }
               {\sum {
                \pi_l
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma_l}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma_l^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               }}
\\
\log(p_k(x)) = \frac {\log(\pi_k) +
                \log(\frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma_k}) + 
                - \frac {1} {2 \sigma_k^2} (x - \mu_k)^2
               }
               {\log(\sum {
                \pi_l
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma_l}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma_l^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               })}
\\
\log(p_k(x)) 
\log(\sum {
     \pi_l
     \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma_l}
     \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma_l^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
    })
= \log(\pi_k) +
  \log(\frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma_k}) + 
  - \frac {1} {2 \sigma_k^2} (x - \mu_k)^2    
\\
\delta(x)
= \log(\pi_k) +
  \log(\frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma_k})  
  - \frac {1} {2 \sigma_k^2} (x - \mu_k)^2 
$$

As you can see, $\delta(x)$ is a quadratic function of $x$.

# Question 4
> When the number of features p is large, there tends to be a deterioration in the performance of KNN and other local approaches that
perform prediction using only observations that are near the test observation for which a prediction must be made. This phenomenon is
known as the curse of dimensionality, and it ties into the fact that non-parametric approaches often perform poorly when p is large. We will now investigate this curse.

> a) Suppose that we have a set of observations, each with measurements on p = 1 feature, X. We assume that X is uniformly (evenly) distributed on [0, 1]. Associated with each observation is a response value. Suppose that we wish to predict a test observation’s response using only observations that are within 10 % of the range of X closest to that test observation. For instance, in order to predict the response for a test observation with X = 0.6, we will use observations in the range [0.55,0.65]. On average, what fraction of the available observations will we use to make the prediction?

Since the pdf $f(x) =\frac{1}{1-0} = 1$ is constant, the area under the curve for a given interval $[x-0.05, x+0.05]$ is $0.1 \times 1 = 0.1$ or 10%. Hence, on average, the the fraction of the available observations that will be used to make the prediction is 10%.

> b) Now suppose that we have a set of observations, each with measurements on p = 2 features, X1 and X2. We assume that (X1 , X2 ) are uniformly distributed on [0, 1] × [0, 1]. We wish to predict a test observation’s response using only observations that are within 10 % of the range of X1 and within 10 % of the range of X2 closest to that test observation. For instance, in order to predict the response for a test observation with X1 = 0.6 and X2 = 0.35, we will use observations in the range [0.55, 0.65] for X1 and in the range [0.3,0.4] for X2. On average, what fraction of the available observations will we use to make the prediction?

Now we are going into higher dimensions, the sample space is now in 3-d, so the fraction of the available observations $= 0.1 \times 0.1 \times 1 = 0.01$ or 1%

> c) Now suppose that we have a set of observations on p = 100 fea- tures. Again the observations are uniformly distributed on each feature, and again each feature ranges in value from 0 to 1. We wish to predict a test observation’s response using observations within the 10 % of each feature’s range that is closest to that test observation. What fraction of the available observations will we use to make the prediction?

On average, $0.10^{100} * 100 = 10^{-98}$%.

> d) Using your answers to parts (a)–(c), argue that a drawback of KNN when p is large is that there are very few training observations “near” any given test observation.

From (a) - (c), we can see that the fraction of the available training observations used to make the prediction follows this general equation

$$
Volume = r ^ {p} * 1
$$

where r is the range of each feature that is closest to the test observation, and p is the number of predictors.

We can see that if we fixed r as a constant, as p increases linearly, the volume of the sample space closest to the test observation decreases exponentially. Since the volume describes, loosely speaking, the amount of training observations we can use to form a local estimate for prediction, and more sample points result in a more accurate local estimate, the number of sample points available to form a local estimate decreases as p increases, resulting in a less accurate prediction. 

> e) Now suppose that we wish to make a prediction for a test obser- vation by creating a p-dimensional hypercube centered around the test observation that contains, on average, 10 % of the train- ing observations. For p = 1, 2, and 100, what is the length of each side of the hypercube? Comment on your answer.
Note: A hypercube is a generalization of a cube to an arbitrary number of dimensions. When p = 1, a hypercube is simply a line segment, when p = 2 it is a square, and when p = 100 it is a 100-dimensional cube.
$$
p = 1, l = 0.10
\\
p = 2, l = \sqrt{0.10} \approx{0.32}
\\
p = 3, l = 0.10^{1/3} \approx{0.46}
\\
...
\\
p = N, l = 0.10^{1/N}
$$

# Question 5
> We now examine the differences between LDA and QDA.

> (a) If the Bayes decision boundary is linear, do we expect LDA or QDA to perform better on the training set? On the test set?

If the Bayes decision boundary is linear, we expect QDA to perform better on the
training set because it's higher flexiblity will yield a closer fit. On the test
set, we expect LDA to perform better than QDA because QDA could overfit the
linearity of the Bayes decision boundary.

> (b) If the Bayes decision boundary is non-linear, do we expect LDA or QDA to perform better on the training set? On the test set?

If the Bayes decision bounary is non-linear, we expect QDA to perform better
both on the training and test sets.

> (c) In general, as the sample size n increases, do we expect the test prediction accuracy of QDA relative to LDA to improve, decline, or be unchanged? Why?

We expect the test prediction accuracy of QDA relative to LDA to improve, in
general, as the the sample size $n$ increases because a more flexibile method
will yield a better fit as more samples can be fit and variance is offset by
the larger sample sizes.

>(d) True or False: Even if the Bayes decision boundary for a given problem is linear, we will probably achieve a superior test er- ror rate using QDA rather than LDA because QDA is flexible enough to model a linear decision boundary. Justify your an- swer.

We expect the test prediction accuracy of QDA relative to LDA to improve, in
general, as the the sample size $n$ increases because a more flexibile method
will yield a better fit as more samples can be fit and variance is offset by
the larger sample sizes.

# Question 6
> Suppose we collect data for a group of students in a statistics class with variables X1 = hours studied, X2 = undergrad GPA, and Y = receive an A. We fit a logistic regression and produce estimated coefficient, βˆ0 = −6, βˆ1 = 0.05, βˆ2 = 1.

$$
p(X) = \frac {\exp(\beta_0 + \beta_1 X_1 + \beta_2 X_2)}
             {1 + \exp(\beta_0 + \beta_1 X_1 + \beta_2 X_2)}
\\
X_1 = hours studied, X_2 = undergrad GPA
\\
\beta_0 = -6, \beta_1 = 0.05, \beta_2 = 1
$$

> (a) Estimate the probability that a student who studies for 40 h and has an undergrad GPA of 3.5 gets an A in the class.

$$
X = [40 hours, 3.5 GPA]
\\
p(X) = \frac {\exp(-6 + 0.05 X_1 + X_2)} {1 + \exp(-6 + 0.05 X_1 + X_2)}
\\
     = \frac {\exp(-6 + 0.05 40 + 3.5)} {1 + \exp(-6 + 0.05 40 + 3.5)}
\\
     = \frac {\exp(-0.5)} {1 + \exp(-0.5)}
\\
     = 37.75\%
$$

> (b) How many hours would the student in part (a) need to study to have a 50 % chance of getting an A in the class?\

$$
X = [X_1 hours, 3.5 GPA]
\\
p(X) = \frac {\exp(-6 + 0.05 X_1 + X_2)} {1 + \exp(-6 + 0.05 X_1 + X_2)}
\\
0.50 = \frac {\exp(-6 + 0.05 X_1 + 3.5)} {1 + \exp(-6 + 0.05 X_1 + 3.5)}
\\
0.50 (1 + \exp(-2.5 + 0.05 X_1)) = \exp(-2.5 + 0.05 X_1)
\\
0.50 + 0.50 \exp(-2.5 + 0.05 X_1)) = \exp(-2.5 + 0.05 X_1)
\\
0.50 = 0.50 \exp(-2.5 + 0.05 X_1)
\\
\log(1) = -2.5 + 0.05 X_1
\\
X_1 = 2.5 / 0.05 = 50 hours
$$

# Question 7
> Suppose that we wish to predict whether a given stock will issue a dividend this year (“Yes” or “No”) based on X, last year’s percent profit. We examine a large number of companies and discover that the mean value of X for companies that issued a dividend was X ̄ = 10, while the mean for those that didn’t was X ̄ = 0. In addition, the variance of X for these two sets of companies was σˆ2 = 36. Finally, 80 % of companies issued dividends. Assuming that X follows a nor- mal distribution, predict the probability that a company will issue a dividend this year given that its percentage profit was X = 4 last year.
Hint: Recall that the density function for a normal random variable is f(x) = √ 1 e−(x−μ)2/2σ2 . You will need to use Bayes’ theorem.

$$
p_k(x) = \frac {\pi_k
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_k)^2)
               }
               {\sum {
                \pi_l
                \frac {1} {\sqrt{2 \pi} \sigma}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               }}
\\
       = \frac {\pi_{yes}
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2}  (x - \mu_{yes})^2)
               }
               {\sum {
                \pi_l
                \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_l)^2)
               }}
\\
       = \frac {\pi_{yes} \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2}  (x - \mu_{yes})^2)}
               {
                \pi_{yes} \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2} (x - \mu_{yes})^2) +
                \pi_{no}  \exp(- \frac {1} {2 \sigma^2}  (x - \mu_{no})^2)
               }
\\
       = \frac {0.80 \exp(- \frac {1} {2 * 36}  (x - 10)^2)}
               {
                0.80 \exp(- \frac {1} {2 * 36} (x - 10)^2) +
                0.20 \exp(- \frac {1} {2 * 36}  x^2)
               }
\\
p_{yes}(4)  = \frac {0.80 \exp(- \frac {1} {2 * 36}  (4 - 10)^2)}
               {
                0.80 \exp(- \frac {1} {2 * 36} (4 - 10)^2) +
                0.20 \exp(- \frac {1} {2 * 36}  4^2)
               }
        = 75.2\%
$$

# Question 8
> Suppose that we take a data set, divide it into equally-sized training and test sets, and then try out two different classification procedures. First we use logistic regression and get an error rate of 20 % on the training data and 30 % on the test data. Next we use 1-nearest neigh- bors (i.e. K = 1) and get an average error rate (averaged over both test and training data sets) of 18%. Based on these results, which method should we prefer to use for classification of new observations? Why?

For KNN with K=1, the training error rate is 0% because for any training observation, its nearest neighbor will be the response itself. So, KNN has a test error rate of 36%. I would choose logistic regression because of its lower test error rate of 30%.

# Question 9
> This problem has to do with odds.

> (a) On average, what fraction of people with an odds of 0.37 of
defaulting on their credit card payment will in fact default?

$$
\frac {p(X)} {1 - p(X)} = 0.37
\\
p(X) = 0.37 (1 - p(X))
\\
1.37 p(X) = 0.37
\\
p(X) = \frac {0.37} {1.37} = 0.27
$$

> (b) Suppose that an individual has a 16% chance of defaulting on her credit card payment. What are the odds that she will de- fault?

$$
odds = \frac {p(X)} {1 - p(X)} = .16 / .84 = 0.19
$$

# Question 10
> Equation 4.32 derived an expression for log 1 Pr(Y =k|X=x) 2 in the Pr(Y =K|X=x)
setting where p > 1, so that the mean for the kth class, μk, is a p- dimensional vector, and the shared covariance Σ is a p × p matrix. However, in the setting with p = 1, (4.32) takes a simpler form, since the means μ1, . . . , μK and the variance σ2 are scalars. In this simpler setting, repeat the calculation in (4.32), and provide expressions for ak and bkj in terms of πk, πK, μk, μK, and σ2.

$$
\log\left(\frac{Pr(Y=k|X=x)}{Pr(Y=K|X=x)}\right)
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k f_k(x)}{\pi_K f_K(x)}\right) \\
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k \exp(-1/2((x-\mu_k)/\sigma)^2)}{\pi_K \exp(-1/2((x-\mu_K)/\sigma)^2)}\right) \\
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k}{\pi_K}\right) - \frac{1}{2} \left(\frac{x-\mu_k}{\sigma}\right)^2 + \frac{1}{2} \left(\frac{x-\mu_K}{\sigma}\right)^2 \\
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k}{\pi_K}\right) - \frac{1}{2\sigma^2} (x-\mu_k)^2 + \frac{1}{2\sigma^2} (x-\mu_K)^2 \\
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k}{\pi_K}\right) - \frac{1}{2\sigma^2} \left((x-\mu_k)^2 - (x-\mu_K)^2\right) \\
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k}{\pi_K}\right) - \frac{1}{2\sigma^2} \left(x^2-2x\mu_k+\mu_k^2 - x^2 + 2x\mu_K - \mu_K^2\right) \\
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k}{\pi_K}\right) - \frac{1}{2\sigma^2} \left(2x(\mu_K - \mu_k) + \mu_k^2 -\mu_K^2\right) \\
 = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k}{\pi_K}\right) - \frac{\mu_k^2 -\mu_K^2}{2\sigma^2} + \frac{x(\mu_k - \mu_K)}{\sigma^2}
$$

Therefore,

$$a_k = \log\left(\frac{\pi_k}{\pi_K}\right) - \frac{\mu_k^2 -\mu_K^2}{2\sigma^2}$$

and

$$b_k = (\mu_k - \mu_K) / \sigma^2$$

# Question 12
> Suppose that you wish to classify an observation $X \in \mathbb{R}$ into 
`apples` and `oranges`. You fit a logistic regression model and find that

$$
\hat{Pr}(Y=orange|X=x) = 
\frac{\exp(\hat\beta_0 + \hat\beta_1x)}{1 + \exp(\hat\beta_0 + \hat\beta_1x)}
$$

> Your friend fits a logistic regression model to the same data using the
> _softmax_ formulation in (4.13), and finds that

$$
\hat{Pr}(Y=orange|X=x) = 
\frac{\exp(\hat\alpha_{orange0} + \hat\alpha_{orange1}x)}
{\exp(\hat\alpha_{orange0} + \hat\alpha_{orange1}x) + \exp(\hat\alpha_{apple0} + \hat\alpha_{apple1}x)}
$$

> (a) What is the log odds of `orange` versus `apple` in your model?

The log odds is just $\hat\beta_0 + \hat\beta_1x$

> (b) What is the log odds of `orange` versus `apple` in your friend's model?

$$
(\hat\alpha_{orange0} - \hat\alpha_{apple0}) + (\hat\alpha_{orange1} - \hat\alpha_{apple1})x
$$

> (c) Suppose that in your model, $\hat\beta_0 = 2$ and $\hat\beta = −1$. What
>    are the coefficient estimates in your friend's model? Be as specific as
>    possible.

We can say that in our friend's model $\hat\alpha_{orange0} - 
\hat\alpha_{apple0} = 2$ and $\hat\alpha_{orange1} - \hat\alpha_{apple1} = -1$.

We are unable to know the specific value of each parameter however.

> (d) Now suppose that you and your friend fit the same two models on a different
>    data set. This time, your friend gets the coefficient estimates 
>    $\hat\alpha_{orange0} = 1.2$, $\hat\alpha_{orange1} = −2$, 
>    $\hat\alpha_{apple0} = 3$, $\hat\alpha_{apple1} = 0.6$. What are the 
>    coefficient estimates in your model?

The coefficients in our model would be $\hat\beta_0 = 1.2 - 3 = -1.8$ and
$\hat\beta_1 = -2 - 0.6 = -2.6$

> e. Finally, suppose you apply both models from (d) to a data set with 2,000
>    test observations. What fraction of the time do you expect the predicted 
>    class labels from your model to agree with those from your friend's model?
>    Explain your answer.

The models are identical with different parameterization so they should 
perfectly agree. This is because in this context, k = 2, both softmax regression and logistic regression are essentially the same model.
